
The Whitman Bibliography




_This edition of the WHITMAN BIBLIOGRAPHY is limited to five hundred
numbered copies, of which this is No. 288_




[Illustration: Walt Whitman]




    THE BIBLIOGRAPHY
    OF WALT WHITMAN

    BY FRANK SHAY


    NEW YORK
    FRIEDMANS'
    1920




Copyright, 1920, by Friedmans'.




    To the memory of
    HORACE TRAUBEL
    1856-1919
    Poet, Philosopher, Comrade




FOREWORD


    "_Camerado, this is no book;
    Who touches this touches a man._"


Walt Whitman's relation to his work was more personal than that of most
poets. He was, in a larger sense, a man of one book, and this book,
issued and reissued at various periods of the poet's life, was, at each
issuance, the latest expression of his development. The infinite care he
gave to his work; the continual study of each poem resulted in changes
in each edition. The book literally grew with the man and in the present
authorized edition of today we have his final and complete utterance.

Whitman's early fugitive work presents to the student a curious anomaly.
It gives no intimation of the great nature that later produced Leaves of
Grass and Democratic Vistas. In quality it was beneath the standards of
the nickle-dreadfuls of yesterday. Bearing such titles as "One Wicked
Impulse"; "Revenge and Requital, Tale of a Murderer Escaped"; "The
Angel of Tears"; (many of them are in the Prose Works) they appealed to
a class to whom thought was anathema and reading solely a pastime. They
are didactic to the extreme, presenting the horrible results of sin and
the corresponding rewards of virtue. Their value as literature, however,
does not come within the province of the bibliographer.

The care Whitman bestowed upon his writings was carried to the
mechanical production of his books. Each edition was manufactured under
his supervision and when completed represented the latest and highest
achievements in commercial bookmaking. Further, he took such an intense
personal interest in the sale of his books that he invariably knew at
all times the number of copies sold and the number on hand.

The first edition comprised three distinct variations. The first of
these, in paper wrappers, are undoubtedly the result of Whitman's
impatience at the delays of the binder. Considering that he had a press
at his disposal, it is not assuming too much to suggest that while
awaiting deliveries from the binder he printed the jackets himself for
immediate use. This is the only way to account for the existence of the
paper copies. Further proof that this contention is correct is that each
copy bears an inscription in Whitman's holograph.

Though Whitman insisted that "the entire edition sold readily" there is
little doubt he meant circulated. In fact, they were circulated so
rapidly a new edition was required within ten months. This second
edition was a dumpy sexto-decimo of nearly four hundred pages. Twenty
new poems were added, one of the earlier poems was dropped and all were
retouched. This edition did sell rapidly and only fear of public
criticism prevented the publishers from reissuing the book. The failure
to find a firm to stand sponsor for his book discouraged Whitman to the
extent of planning to go West and pioneer. His plans for this venture
were completed when Thayer and Eldridge opened negotiations for the
book's republication with any new material available. This offer took
the poet to Boston to oversee the work and in May, 1860, a substantial
volume, with many new poems came from the press. The book went through
two editions, a total of between thirty-five hundred and four thousand
copies when the publishers failed. The plates were sold at auction and
went to a notorious pirate, who, within the next ten years, published
and sold over ten thousand copies. Whitman had no control over these
crimped editions and forever after they were a torment to him.

It was not until after the Civil War that a new authentic edition was
published--again without a publisher. In later issues of this edition
Whitman bound in the sheets of "Drum-Taps" and "When Lilacs Last in the
Dooryard Bloom'd," and in still later issues, "Songs Before Parting."
The total number of copies issued is not known but must have been quite
small owing to the effect of the lower priced pirated edition.

The fifth edition was published in Washington and attracted little or no
attention save in England where the demand for complete and unabridged
copies was fostered by Rossetti's emasculated edition. The English
demand was so great that Whitman was compelled to reprint one or two
new editions. He got around the expense of new plates by inserting
"intercallations"--poems printed on separate slips of paper and tipped
in.

In 1881, the next Boston edition was issued. With a recognized publisher
of Osgood's standing there should have been no question of the final
success of "Leaves of Grass." Osgood published all the work of the New
Englanders; Longfellow, Lowell, Emerson and Whittier. Whitman was in
good company save that the Society for the Suppression of Vice
considered "Leaves of Grass" to be bad company and through District
Attorney Stevens secured its suppression. Osgood promptly withdrew the
book and gladly turned over to the author all unsold and unbound copies
and the plates. The plates went to Rees, Welsh and Company, of
Philadelphia, who brought out an edition and then dropped from sight.
David McKay published an edition from the same plates. During this time
certain "special" and "author's" editions were published by Whitman as
his own publisher.

After Whitman's death Small, Maynard & Company, of Boston, became the
authorized publishers. They were followed in turn by D. Appleton and
Company, and Mitchell Kennerley. At this writing Messrs. Doubleday, Page
& Co. are the authorized publishers of "Leaves of Grass," and the
"Prose Works."

Any bibliography of Whitman's Works can be called but an attempt. His
temperamental handling of the plates of the various editions of "Leaves
of Grass" resulted in many curious imprints. There may be omissions, I
grant, but not serious ones. The work I undertook was a clearing up of
the fog which hung about the various Boston editions and setting
cataloguers right on the first edition.

I must, at this point, thank Anne Montgomerie Traubel, of Camden, Mr.
Walter Bartley Quinlan and Mr. Alfred F. Goldsmith, of New York, and Mr.
Henry S. Saunders, of Toronto, Canada, for valuable suggestions and
comparison of notes, and Mr. M. M. Breslow for permission to use his
very excellent collection of Whitmaniana as a basis for this
bibliography.

                                                 FRANK SHAY.

New York City

July, 1920.




NOTE


The arrangement is chronological, the only practicable method.

In listing titles and imprints I have sought to follow the typography
and punctuation of the originals. Where this was not practicable I have
inserted punctuation marks to give the matter coherence. Where I have
interpolated remarks or descriptions within the titles I have enclosed
them in brackets to distinguish them from Whitman's parenthesis.




1842


The New World. Extra Series. Number 34. New York, November, 1842.
Original Temperance Novel. Franklin Evans; or The Inebriate. A Tale of
the Times. By Walter Whitman.

    Royal octavo, pp. 31, uncut.

    Published as an extra to "_The New World_."

    The last page (32) contains advertisement: "New Works in Press."

    Written during Whitman's Bohemian days it was advertised as a
    thrilling romance by one of the best novelists in this country
    and had a sale of between 20,000 and 25,000 copies, which netted
    the author about $200. References to the work in later years
    irritated Whitman and he refused to discuss it. The work is
    extremely scarce considering the great number that were
    published.




1855


Leaves of Grass. Brooklyn, New York. 1855.

    First edition. Twelve poems.

    Imperial octavo, pink paper wrappers.

    "Leaves of Grass" printed in block letters across front wrapper,
    end wrapper blank. Steel engraved portrait, title, uncaptioned
    preface, xii, Leaves of Grass, pp. 95, end blank.

    The author's name appears only in the copyright notice, and in
    the first poem: "Walt Whitman, an American, one of the roughs, a
    kosmos."

    The poems, twelve in number, are without titles. In the present
    authorized edition they appear under the following titles:

        Song of Myself.
        A Song for Occupations.
        To Think of Time.
        The Sleepers.
        I Sing the Body Electric.
        Faces.
        Song of the Answer (part one).
        Europe.
        A Boston Ballad.
        There Was a Child Went Forth.
        Who Learns My Lesson Complete.
        Great Are the Myths.

    The preface was later worked into three poems:

        By Blue Ontario's Shore.
        Song of Prudence.
        To a Foil'd European Revolutionaire.

    There are three variations of the first edition. The one noted
    above in pink wrappers is unquestionably the first issue. The
    second issue is bound in green cloth, gilt edges, and with the
    title stamped in rustic letters in gilt on the front cover. The
    last issue of this edition has all the points of the second
    issue with eight pages of press notices bound in at the front.

    Less than nine hundred copies were printed in July, 1855, in the
    printshop of Andrew H. Rome, 98 Cranberry Street, Brooklyn, the
    author assisting in the type composition and presswork. The
    volume was placed on sale at Fowler & Wells, Broadway, New York,
    and at Swaynes, in Fulton Street, Brooklyn, at two dollars, but
    was later reduced to one dollar. Very few copies were sold;
    Whitman giving almost the entire edition to critics and friends.

    Catalogued from the Maier copy.




    A reprint of this edition was issued in January, 1920, by Mr.
    Thomas B. Mosher, Portland, Maine.




1856


Leaves of Grass. Brooklyn, New York. 1856.

    Second edition. Thirty-two poems.

    Thick 16mo, green drab cloth, sprinkled edges. Title stamped in
    gilt on face of binding; on back title and quotation from
    Emerson's letter "I Greet You at the Beginning of a Great
    Career, R. W. Emerson," portrait, same as in the first edition,
    title, contents, iv, Leaves of Grass, pp. (5)-342, Leaves
    Droppings (reprint of Emerson's letter; Whitman's letter to
    Emerson and press notices), pp. 345-384, advertisement. Owing to
    the storm of criticism which arose against the book, Fowler &
    Wells, the New York publishers, refused to put their name on the
    title page, and though they attended to all the details of
    presswork and distribution, the volume was issued from Brooklyn,
    without imprint. It is said that there are copies in existence
    bearing Fowler & Wells imprint, but this is doubtful as such
    copies are unknown to Whitman collectors. In this edition the
    prose preface of the first edition is worked into four poems: By
    Blue Ontario's Shore; Song of the Answerer, part two; To a
    Foil'd European Revolutionaire, and Song of Prudence; the
    balance being reprinted in Specimen Days and Collect, 1881.

    Owing to the refusal of Fowler & Wells to stand sponsor to the
    volume, only 1,000 copies were printed and the book was out of
    print 1858-1860.




1860


Leaves of Grass Imprints. American and European Criticisms of "Leaves of
Grass." Boston: Thayer and Eldridge, 1860.

    18mo, printed wrappers, pp. 64.

    A reprint of current criticisms of the first and second
    editions. Pp. 7, 30, 38, contain articles written and
    contributed anonymously by Whitman to various New York papers.
    They were later reprinted in the Fellowship papers and in In Re
    Walt Whitman, 1893.

    It is exceedingly rare.




1860


Leaves of Grass. Boston: Thayer and Eldridge, Year '85 of The States.
(1860-61.)

    Third edition. 154 poems.

    Duodecimo, brown cloth, heavily blind embossed. Portrait, at the
    age of forty, engraved by Schoff, after the painting by Charles
    Hine, in 1859, on an irregular tinted background, title,
    contents, pp. iv-456.

    Issued May, 1860. The author went to Boston to superintend
    the printing and binding. The publishers failed during the
    period of financial depression at the beginning of the Civil War
    and the plates were sold at auction to R. Worthington, who
    surreptitiously used them with the original imprint. There are,
    for this reason, four or more editions bearing the original
    Thayer and Eldridge imprint. The first issue is distinguished by
    the engraved portrait which is on an irregular tinted background
    and by the gilt embossed butterfly on the backbone of the
    binding. On the verso of the title is the inscription
    "Electrotyped at the Boston Stereotype Foundry. Printed by
    George C. Rand & Avery." The second issue has the portrait on
    white paper and lacks the gilt butterfly. The third issue, or
    the first pirated issue, lacks the printer's inscription and is
    bound in cheap cloth. Early issues, all spurious, contain
    catalogues of Worthington's publications bound in at the end.
    The plates were purchased by Whitman's literary executors after
    his death.

    In this edition the author abandons calling the months by their
    common names and adopts the Quaker style: that of calling
    September the Ninthmonth, etc.

    Copies of the first issue with the tinted portrait are extremely
    scarce. The various editions have heretofore remained
    undistinguished.




1865


Walt Whitman's Drum-Taps. New York, 1865.

    Duodecimo, brown cloth, title (Drum-Taps) stamped on gold ground
    on front cover, title, contents, iv, pp. 5-72.

    But few copies had been issued when the death of President
    Lincoln occurred and the author withheld the balance until a few
    weeks later when he added "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard
    Bloom'd and other Pieces," with pagination distinct from that of
    Drum-Taps, as a sequel. This and the "Sequel" formed the first
    and second annexes to the fourth edition, 1867, of Leaves of
    Grass, and were later incorporated in the Washington, 1871
    edition under the title of Drum-Taps. Copies without the
    "sequel" are exceedingly scarce.




1865


Sequel to Drum-Taps (since the preceding came from the press). When
Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd. And Other Pieces. Washington, D. C.,
1865-6.

    Duodecimo, pp. 24.

    It is doubtful if any copies reached the market other than those
    issued as a part of Drum-Taps. The remaining copies were bound
    up with second issue of the 1867 edition.




1867


Leaves of Grass. New York, 1867.

    Fourth edition.

    Duodecimo, walnut half-morocco, title, contents, iv, pp. (7)-338.
    There is also a cloth bound issue that differs in no manner from
    the above. Both have "Ed'n 1867" stamped in gilt on back.

    Later issues of this edition have added, under separate
    pagination, Drum-Taps, pp. iv-72; Sequel to Drum-Taps, pp. 24;
    Songs Before Parting, pp. 36. A blank leaf separates each
    section.

    In this edition the author changes the writing of the past
    participle to 'd. The verses and sections are numbered.




1868


Poems by Walt Whitman. Selected and Edited by William Michael Rossetti
[quotation from Michelangelo]. London: John Camden Hotten, Piccadilly,
1868.

    "Rossetti" Edition.

    Duodecimo, blue cloth, uncut; half-title, portrait with
    facsimile signature, title, page of quotations from Swedenborg,
    Carlyle, and Robespierre, note on portrait, dedication (by W. M. R.)
    to William Bell Scott, contents, prefatory notices, preface to
    Leaves of Grass, pp. 64; half-title, pp. 401, postscript. Eight
    pages of advertisements in front, and sixteen pages in back.

    The first English, or "Rossetti's Edition." W. D. O'Connor
    writing to an European friend called it "A fairly
    representative, but nevertheless, castrated edition."

    A second edition from new type was issued in 1886 by Chatto &
    Windus, London. Third edition, 1910.




1871


Leaves of Grass. Washington, D. C., 1871. [Pointing Hand] See Advertisement
at end of this Volume.

    Fifth edition.

    Duodecimo, light green paper wrappers, uncut; title, contents,
    pp. vi-384.

    Copyright notice dated 1870; Later issues were bound in cloth.




1871


Memoranda. Democratic Vistas. Washington, D. C., 1871. [Pointing Hand]
See Advertisement at end of this Volume.

    Duodecimo, light green paper wrappers, uncut; title, contents,
    pp. 84.

    Copyright notice dated 1870.




1871


Leaves of Grass. Passage to India. (Five line poem beginning, "Gliding
o'er all.") Washington, D. C., 1871. [Pointing Hand] See Advertisement
at end of this Volume.

    Duodecimo, light green paper wrappers, uncut; title, contents,
    pp. iv-120.

    Copyright notice dated 1870.




1871


After All, Not to Create Only. Recited by Walt Whitman on Invitation of
Managers American Institute, on Opening their 40th Annual Exhibition,
New York, noon, September 7, 1871 (device). Boston: Roberts Brothers,
1871.

    Duodecimo, beveled cloth boards, half-title, title, note, vii;
    pp. 24, notes.

    There is also a limp cloth issue which is quite common, that was
    issued to be sold at the exhibition.

    The poem was later published in the Transactions of the American
    Institute, 1871-72. Albany, 1872.




1872


Leaves of Grass. Washington, D. C., 1872.

    Second issue of the fifth edition.

    Duodecimo, green cloth, uncut; title, contents, vi, pp. 384.
    Passage to India, pp. 120. Printed from the plates of the
    Washington, 1871 editions of Leaves of Grass and Passage to
    India.

    Later issues have After All, Not to Create Only, pp. 14 bound
    in.




1872


Leaves of Grass. As a Strong Bird on Pinions Free. And Other Poems.
Washington, D. C., 1872.

    Duodecimo, green cloth, uncut; title, contents, preface, x; One
    Song, America, Before I Go, one page; Souvenirs of Democracy,
    facsimile signature, one page; pp. 14; Virginia--The West; By
    Broad Potomac's Shore, one page, unnumbered; eight pages
    advertisements.




1875


Memoranda During the War. By Walt Whitman. Author's Publication. Camden,
New Jersey, 1875-76.

    Octavo, maroon cloth, title stamped in gold on cover; page,
    "Remembrance Copy;" portrait, title, pp. 68, advertisement.




1876


Leaves of Grass. [Nine-line poem beginning "Come, said my soul," signed
Walt Whitman in the Author's autograph.] Author's Edition, with
Portraits from Life. Camden, New Jersey, 1876.

    Sixth edition.

    Octavo, half-calf, leather label, title, contents, vi; pp. 384,
    advertisement. Portrait same as in the first edition facing page
    29; woodcut portrait by W. J. Linton facing page 285.




1876


Leaves of Grass. [Nine-line poem in author's holograph, signed Walt
Whitman.] Author's Edition. With Portraits and Intercallations. Camden,
New Jersey, 1876.

    Octavo, half calf, leather label, uncut. The same in every
    detail except for a new title. At the end of the table of
    contents a slip is tipped in:

        Intercallations                  Page

        As in a Swoon                     207
        The Beauty of the Ship            247
        When the Full-Grown Poet Came     359
        After an Interval                 369

    On each page indicated will be found a poem, tipped in.

    There is a variation in the intercallations: a few contain "A
    Death Sonnet for Custer."




1876


Two Rivulets including Democratic Vistas, Centennial Songs, and Passage
to India. Author's Edition. Camden, New Jersey, 1876.

    Octavo, half-calf, leather label; portrait, "Photo'd from life,
    Sept., '72, Brooklyn, N. Y., by G. F. Pearsall, Fulton St."
    signed "Walt Whitman, born May 31, 1819"; title, pp. 32, blank
    leaf; Democratic Vistas, pp. 84; blank page; Centennial Songs,
    1876, pp. 1-18; blank page; As a Strong Bird on Pinions Free,
    preface, pp. x, pp. 14, blank page; Passage to India, pp. 120;
    blank page, advertisement.

    The above and Leaves of Grass, 1876, were uniform in binding and
    comprised Whitman's complete works to date.




1881


Leaves of Grass [device]. Boston: James R. Osgood & Company, 1881-82.

    Seventh edition.

    Duodecimo, yellow cloth, facsimile signature stamped in gilt on
    front cover; title, contents, pp. 382. This edition was
    suppressed by District Attorney Stevens on complaint of the
    Society for the Suppression of Vice. The unbound copies were
    claimed by the author who inserted a new title-page. The plates
    were turned over to Rees, Welsh and Company. Later they were
    given to David McKay, who issued several editions bearing the
    dates of 1884, 1885, 1886. There is also an edition from these
    plates with McKay's imprint and Putnam's name on the binding.




1881


Leaves of Grass. By Walt Whitman, Author's Copyright Edition [device].
London: David Bogue, 3 St. Martin's Place, Trafalgar Square, W. C.,
1881. (All rights reserved.)

    Octavo, olive cloth, uncut; title, contents, pp. 382. The
    collation being the same as that of the Boston, 1881 edition it
    is possible that Bogue purchased the sheets from Osgood or
    Whitman and bound the book to his own tastes.

    There was another issue, same collation, in 1884.




1881


Leaves of Grass by Walt Whitman: Preface to the Original Edition, 1855
[device]. London: Trübner & Co., 1881.

    Octavo, blue wrappers, uncut, title, pp. 31, advertisements.

    Only 500 copies were printed.

    An edition on large paper, bound in light blue wrappers and
    limited to twenty-five copies was issued at the same time.




1882


Specimen Days and Collect. By Walt Whitman, author of "Leaves of Grass."
Philadelphia: Rees, Welsh & Co., No. 23 South Ninth Street, 1882-83.

    Duodecimo, paper wrappers, uncut; portrait, title, contents, pp.
    374; advertisement. Very few copies were issued in wrappers, the
    larger number being bound in yellow cloth and with the imprint
    of David McKay. The edition with the imprint of Wilson and
    McCormick, Glasgow, 1883, was printed from the same plates.




1886


Leaves of Grass. The Poems of Walt Whitman (selected), with Introduction
by Ernest Rhys.

    18 mo, blue cloth, paper label, uncut; portrait, title,
    contents, introduction, xxxix, pp. 318; advertisements.

    The Canterbury Poet Series.




1887


Specimen Days in America. By Walt Whitman. Newly revised by the author,
with fresh preface and additional note. London: Walter Scott, 24 Warwick
Lane, Paternoster Row, 1887.

    16 mo, blue cloth, paper label, uncut; half-title, title,
    contents, preface, pp. 312; advertisements.

    The Camelot Series.

    Later Published by Routledge in the New Universal Library.




1888


November Boughs. By Walt Whitman. Philadelphia: David McKay, 23 South
Ninth Street, 1888.

    Octavo maroon cloth, uncut; title stamped in gilt on front
    cover; portrait, the 70th year, title, contents, (5)-140;
    advertisement.




1888


Complete (portrait) Poems and Prose of Walt Whitman, 1855-1888.
Authenticated and Personal Book (handled by W. W.). Portraits from Life.
Autograph.

    Eighth edition, Leaves of Grass; third edition of Prose Works.

    Octavo, half cloth, uncut. Leaves of Grass, pp. 382; Specimen
    Days, pp. 374; November Boughs, pp. 140. Portraits face pp. 29
    and 206.

    600 copies.




1888


Democratic Vistas, and other Papers. By Walt Whitman. Published by
arrangement with the author. London: Walter Scott, 24 Warwick Lane,
Paternoster Row, 1888.

    12 mo, cloth, paper label, uncut; title, contents, preface, pp.
    175; advertisements.




1889


Leaves of Grass with Sands at Seventy and A Backward Glance o'er
Travel'd Roads.

    To-day, after finishing my 70th year, the fancy comes for
    celebrating it by a special, complete, final utterance, in one
    handy volume, of L. of G., with their Annex, and Backward
    Glance--and for stamping and sprinkling all with portraits and
    facial photos, such as they actually were, taken from life,
    different stages. Doubtless, anyhow, the volume is more a
    _Person_ than a book. And for testimony to all (and for good
    measure) I here with pen and ink append my name: Walt Whitman.
    Portraits from Life; autograph; special edition. (300 copies
    only printed--$5 each.)

    The "Pocketbook" Leaves of Grass.

    Duodecimo, black morocco, with and without flaps, gilt edges.

    Portrait, title, contents, pp. 9-382; Sands at Seventy, pp.
    383-404; A Backward Glance o'er Travel'd Roads, separate
    pagination, pp. 1-18. Portraits face pp. 29, 132, 214, 296, 383.




1889


Gems from Walt Whitman. Selected by Elizabeth Porter Gould.
Philadelphia: David McKay, Publisher, 23 South Ninth Street, 1889.

    Oblong duodecimo, maroon cloth; title, contents, poem to W. W.,
    pp. 58.




1891


Good-Bye My Fancy, 2d Annex to Leaves of Grass. Philadelphia: David
McKay, Publisher, 23 South Ninth Street, 1891.

    Octavo, green or maroon cloth, uncut, gilt top; title stamped in
    gilt on front cover; portrait, title, contents, pp. (5)-66.




1891


Leaves of Grass. Including Sands at Seventy. 1st Annex, Good-Bye my
Fancy; 2d Annex, A Backward Glance o'er Travel'd Roads, and Portrait
from Life. [Nine-line poem, facsimile signature of the author.]
Philadelphia: David McKay, Publisher, 23 South Ninth Street, 1891-2.

    Ninth edition.

    Octavo, paper wrappers, paper label, uncut; title, contents, pp.
    438.

    Later issues were bound in cloth and have the publisher's
    address at 1022 Market Street.




1892


Complete Prose Works. Walt Whitman. Philadelphia: David McKay,
Publisher, 23 South Ninth Street, 1892.

    Octavo, green cloth, uncut, gilt top; title, contents, viii, pp.
    522.




1892


Selected Poems. By Walt Whitman. New York: Charles L. Webster & Co.,
1892.

    16 mo, grey cloth; half-title, portrait, editor's note, pp. 179;
    advertisements.

    In the Fiction, Fact, and Fancy Series.

    Edited by Arthur Stedman.




1892


Autobiographia, or the Story of a Life. By Walt Whitman. Selected from
his Writings. New York: Charles L. Webster & Co., 1892.

    16 mo, grey cloth; half-title, photo of Mickle Street, Camden
    house, title, editor's note, W. W. by E. C. S., pp. 205;
    advertisements.

    The publisher failed and very few copies reached the market.

    In the Fiction, Fact, and Fancy Series edited by Arthur Stedman.

    There is an issue in blue cloth from the same plates, uncut,
    bearing the imprint of G. P. Putnam's Sons, London, 1892, and
    some bearing the McKay imprint.




1893


_In Re_ Walt Whitman. Edited by his Literary Executors, Horace L.
Traubel, Richard Maurice Bucke, Thomas B. Harned [quotation from
Lucretius]. Published by the Editors through David McKay, 23 South Ninth
Street, Philadelphia, 1893.

    Octavo, cloth, uncut; half-title, title, a First and Last Word,
    contents, x, pp. 452; advertisements. But 1,000 copies were
    published. Each copy was to be numbered consecutively, though
    many are found without the number. Most copies have the
    signatures of one or all the executors.

    The volume contains the following by Walt Whitman:

        Walt Whitman and his Poems, pp. 13-21.
        Leaves of Grass: a volume of poems just published, pp. 23-26.
        An English and an American Poet, pp. 27-32.
        Letters in Sickness: Washington, 1873, pp. 73-92.

    The first three articles were written by Whitman during 1855-56
    and sent to the newspapers anonymously. He insisted that
    considering the misunderstanding and abuse accorded to Leaves of
    Grass, he was compelled to resort to these methods to defend his
    work in columns that would have been otherwise closed to him.
    The latter was a series of letters to his mother.




[*]1895


The Masterpiece Library. XXVII. Poems by Walt Whitman [quotation].
London: "Review of Reviews," Office Price One Penny.

    Duodecimo, orange wrappers, pp. 60; advertisements. No. 27 of
    the Penny Poets.

    Quite scarce.

    [*Date registered British Copyright Office.]




1897


Leaves of Grass including Sands at Seventy, Good-Bye My Fancy, Old Age
Echoes, and A Backward Glance O'er Traveled Roads. By Walt Whitman
[device]. Boston: Small, Maynard & Company, 1897.

    Octavo, green cloth, uncut; portrait, title, poem, author's
    note, no pagination, pp. 455.

    Later editions from the same plates:

        D. Appleton & Company.
        Mitchell Kennerley.
        Doubleday, Page & Company.




1897


Calamus. A Series of Letters Written during the Years 1868-1880. By Walt
Whitman to a Young Friend [Peter Doyle]. Edited with an introduction by
Richard Maurice Bucke, M. D., one of Whitman's literary executors.
[Quotation from p. 102, "Leaves of Grass," edition of 1892.] Published
by Laurens Maynard at 287 Congress Street in Boston, MDCCCXCVII.

    Duodecimo, boards, cloth back, paper label; zinc etching of
    Whitman and Peter Doyle reproduced from a photograph by Rice,
    Washington, D. C., 1869; title, 4 pp. quotations, chronological
    notes of Walt Whitman's life, introduction, pp. 173.

    The first issue was limited to 35 numbered copies. A regular
    edition was published at the same time.




1898


Complete Prose Works. Specimen Days and Collect, November Boughs and
Good-Bye My Fancy. By Walt Whitman [device]. Boston: Small, Maynard &
Company, 1898.

    Octavo, cloth, uncut; half-title, portrait, title, contents,
    list of illustrations, pp. 527.

    Later editions from the same plates:

        A. Appleton & Company.
        Mitchell Kennerley.
        Doubleday, Page & Company.




1898


The Wound Dresser. A Series of Letters Written from the Hospitals in
Washington during the War of the Rebellion. By Walt Whitman. Edited by
Richard Maurice Bucke, M. D., one of Whitman's literary executors
[device]. Boston: Small, Maynard & Company, 1898.

    Octavo, red buckram, uncut; title, portrait, contents, pp. 201.

    The edition was limited to 10 copies signed by the editor; the
    earliest of these copies have the publisher's device slightly
    out of the center.




1898


Selections from the Prose and Poetry of Walt Whitman. Edited with an
Introduction by Oscar Lovell Triggs, Ph.D. (The University of Chicago)
[device]. Boston: Small, Maynard & Company, 1898.

    Octavo, buckram, uncut; half-title, portrait, title, dedication,
    preface, contents, introduction xliii, half-title, pp. 248.
    Selected bibliography (251)-257.




1898


"Walt Whitman at Home." By Himself. Critic Pamphlet No. 2. New York: The
Critic Co., 1898.

    Duodecimo, sewn, uncut; title, portrait, pp. 21. Facsimiles of
    Walt Whitman's manuscript on pp. 15 and 21.




1899


Notes and Fragments. Left by Walt Whitman and now Edited by Dr. Richard
Maurice Bucke, one of his literary executors. "Waifs from the Deep Cast
High and Dry," Leaves of Grass, pp. 278. Printed for Private
Distribution only, 1899.

    Small quarto, pebbled cloth, uncut; half-title, title, preface,
    pp. 211.

    250 copies.




1900


Leaves of Grass. By Walt Whitman. Including a Facsimile Autobiography,
variorum readings of the poems and a department of Gathered Leaves
[device]. Philadelphia: David McKay, 1022 Market St.

    8vo, green cloth; g.t., uncut; portrait, title, preface by David
    McKay, contents, x, facsimile of Whitman's autobiography, pp.
    510, alphabetical index of titles, (511)-516. There are
    portraits facing pp. 31, 117, 395 of the text.




1900


Leaves of Grass [device]. Walt Whitman. New York and Boston: H. M.
Caldwell Co.

    18mo, pictorial board on cloths, uncut, portrait, title, pp. 88;
    advertisements.




1900


When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd. Essex House Press, London:
1900.

    12mo. vellum, uncut.

    135 copies on vellum.




1902


The Complete Writings of Walt Whitman. Issued under the editorial
supervision of his Literary Executors, Richard Maurice Bucke, Thomas B.
Harned, and Horace L. Traubel. With additional bibliographical and
critical material by Oscar Lovell Triggs, Ph.D. G. P. Putnam's Sons. New
York and London: The Knickerbocker Press.

    Ten volumes, various bindings, uncut.

    Every scrap of paper and memoranda of Whitman's is here
    collected and edited by his literary executors. Leaves of Grass
    takes up three volumes; the Prose works seven.

        Vol. 1. Introduction. Leaves of Grass.
        Vol. 2. Leaves of Grass.
        Vol. 3. Leaves of Grass, variorum readings, index.
        Vol. 1. Specimen Days.
        Vol. 2. Specimen Days; Collect.
        Vol. 3. Collect,  November Boughs, Good-Bye My Fancy.
        Vol. 4. Good-Bye My Fancy, The Wound Dresser.
        Vol. 5. Calamus, chapters by T. B. Harned.
        Vol. 6. Notes and Fragments.
        Vol. 7. Notes and Fragments, The Growth of Leaves of Grass,
                Bibliography, by O. L. Triggs.

    There are several editions; three of which were published
    simultaneously.

        Autograph edition, with ms. inserted        32 sets.
        Paumanok edition, coloured plates          300 sets.
        Camden edition                             300 sets.

    The Lamb Publishing Company later published from the same
    plates:

        National edition                       1,000 copies.




1904


Walt Whitman's Diary in Canada with Extracts from other of his Diaries
and Literary Note-Books. Edited by William Sloane Kennedy [device].
Boston: Small, Maynard & Company, MCMIV.

    Octavo, grey boards, parchment back and corners, uncut;
    half-title, portrait, title, editor's preface, pp. 73.

    The edition was limited to 500 copies of which few were sold,
    the balance being bound up in light blue cloth, some without
    portrait.




1904


An American Primer. By Walt Whitman, with Facsimiles of the Original
Manuscript. Edited by Horace Traubel [device]. Boston: Small, Maynard &
Company, MCMIV.

    8vo, grey boards, vellum back and corners, uncut; half-title,
    portrait, title, foreword, half-title, 3 pp. facsimiles, pp. 35.

    The edition was limited to 500 copies of which few were sold,
    the balance being bound up in light blue cloth, some without
    portrait.




1904


Leaves of Grass [selected]. With a prefactory note by Harry Roberts.
London: Anthony Treherne & Co., Ltd., 1904.

    Duodecimo, cloth, title, preface, pp. 272.

    Vol. I of the Vagabonds Library.




1904


Selected Poems of Walt Whitman. Edited with Introduction and Notes by
Julian W. Abernethy, Ph.D. [device]. New York: Charles E. Merrill Co.

    16 mo, brown wrappers, title, introduction, critical opinions,
    bibliography, pp. 63.

    In Maynard's English Classic Series, No. 242.




1904


Song of Myself. I, Walt Whitman, now thirty-seven years old, in perfect
health, begin, hoping to cease not till death. I will make the poems of
materials, for I think they are the most spiritual poems, and I will
make the poems of my body and mortality. Done into print by the
Roycrofters at their shop which is in East Aurora, New York, A.D.
MDCCCCIV.

    Small quarto, various bindings, uncut; half title, portrait,
    title, pp. 70.




1905


Lafayette in Brooklyn. By Walt Whitman, with an Introduction by John
Burroughs. New York: George D. Smith, 1905.

    Octavo, grey boards, paper labels, uncut; half-title,
    publisher's note and autograph signature portrait on Japan
    paper, title, contents, list of plates, note, half-title,
    facsimile of manuscript on Japan paper, note, Lafayette in
    Brooklyn, notes. No pagination. There is a portrait of Lafayette
    in the text. The issue was limited to 250 copies, 15 of which
    were on Imperial Japanese vellum, the balance on hand-made
    paper.




1905


The Book of Heavenly Death by Walt Whitman, compiled from Leaves of
Grass by Horace Traubel [device]. Portland, Maine: Thomas B. Mosher,
MDCCCCV.

    Duodecimo, light blue boards, paper label, uncut; note,
    facsimile, note, portrait (Lear) title, contents, preface, pp.
    103 including index.

    500 copies from type.

    Collated from late edition.




1906


Memories of President Lincoln and other Lyrics of the War. By Walt
Whitman [device]. Portland, Maine: Thomas B. Mosher, MDCCCCVI.

    16mo, grey boards, paper labels, uncut; half-title, title,
    contents, foreword, pp. (43).

    950 copies from type.




1906


Memories of President Lincoln, and other Lyrics of the War. By Walt
Whitman [device]. Portland, Maine: Thomas B. Mosher, MDCCCCVI.

    Duodecimo, boards, paper label, uncut; half-title, title,
    contents, foreword by Horace Traubel and T. B. M., note by John
    Burroughs, pp. 45.




1906


Walt Whitman. A Little Book of Nature Thoughts. Selected by Anne
Montgomerie Traubel [device]. Portland, Maine: Thomas B. Mosher,
MDCCCCVI.

    Narrow 16mo, blue wrappers, uncut; half-title, title, preface,
    pp. 82, index.




1907


The Wisdom of Walt Whitman. Selected and Edited, with Introduction by
Laurens Maynard. New York: Brentano's Fifth Avenue, MCMVII.

    24mo, limp morocco; half-title, title, contents, introduction,
    pp. 154; index, pp. 155-165.




1909


Leaves of Grass. By Walt Whitman. London, New York, Toronto and
Melbourne: Cassell and Company, Ltd. MCMIX.

    Duodecimo, cloth or leather, pp. 468.

    The Peoples Library.




1912


Memories of President Lincoln. When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd;
O Captain! My Captain; Hush'd be the Camps To-Day; This Dust was once
the Man [device]. Portland, Maine: Published by Thomas B. Mosher at XLV
Exchange Street, MDCCCCXII.

    Imperial octavo, grey boards, uncut; part of Lincoln, title,
    Lincoln's Gettysburg address, note by William Marion Reedy,
    contents, half-title, foreword by Horace Traubel and T. B. M.,
    half-title, pp. 13, printed on front of each page,
    bibliographical notes, (16) note.

    300 copies on hand made paper.

    50 copies of Japanese vellum.




1912


Leaves of Grass (1), and Democratic Vistas. By Walt Whitman. London:
Published by J. M. Dent & Sons, Ltd., and in New York by E. P. Dutton &
Co.

    Duodecimo, cloth and leather, pp. 359.

    Everyman's Library; introduction by Horace Traubel.




1912


The Rolling Earth. Outdoor Scenes and Thoughts from the writings of Walt
Whitman. Compiled by Waldo R. Browne, with an Introduction by John
Burroughs [quotation]. Boston and New York: Houghton Mifflin Company.
The Riverside Press, Cambridge, 1912.

    16 mo, cloth; half-title, portrait, title, dedication, pp. (223).




1913


Poems from Leaves of Grass. By Walt Whitman. The colored illustrations
by Margaret C. Cook. London: J. M. Dent & Sons, Ltd. New York: E. P.
Dutton & Co., 1913.

    Octavo, cloth, gilt, uncut; half-title, title, contents, list of
    illustrations, pp. 260.

    Twenty-four colored plates mounted on oxford brown paper.

    From the text of the 1861 edition.




1913


Criticism, An Essay. By Walt Whitman For Members. Newark: Carteret Book
Club: 1913.

    Duodecimo, boards, uncut.

    Edition limited to one hundred copies.




1914


Leaves of Grass (Selected). By Walt Whitman [quotation from DuBury].
London: Charles H. Kelly.

    Duodecimo, crimson cloth; decorated title and frontispiece, pp.
    300.

    Edited by John Telford. "Special care has been taken in this
    edition to omit everything that would offend the reader's
    taste." From the editor's preface.




1915


Memories of President Lincoln. By Walt Whitman [device]. Little Leather
Library Corporation, 1915.

    Sexto-decimo, limp calf, pp. 127.




n. d.


Sea Drift. By Walt Whitman [device]. London: Jarrold & Sons.

    Sexto-decimo, polished levant, uncut. Printed on one side of the
    page, pp. 52 (104).



    +------------------------------------------------------+
    | Transcriber's Note: The advertisement pages at the   |
    | end of the book were not available for inclusion     |
    | in this e-book.                                      |
    +------------------------------------------------------+





End of Project Gutenberg's The Bibliography of Walt Whitman, by Frank Shay

